## Generating a random number
- This is for some programs that need random num
	- Ex: A game needs a dice roll
- RandomNumber() is a built-in for Coral that takes 2 args lowValue and highValue nad returns a random integer in the rand lowValue to highValue
### Pseudo-random
- integers generated by RandomNumber() are known as pseudo-random
- random number is automatically seeded by coral based on current time 
- As a result you can choose your seed by using the function SeedRandomNumbers()
- Seeding should only be done once per program before the RandomNumber() call

### Integer division 
##### Division: Integer rounding 
- when the operands of / are both ints, the operator preforms int division, which doesn't generate a fraction. (remainders are thrown out)
- The / operator performs floating-point division if at least one operand is a floating-point type
-  you can never use 0 for the second operand of / or % because divide by zero is mathematically undefined
	- This results in a divide by 0 error causing the program to terminate
### Type conversions
#### Type conversions 
- A calculation sometimes has to mix integer and floating point numbers. 
- #typeconversion is a conversion of one data type to another, such as an integer to a float.
	- automatic conversion is known as #implicitConversion 
	- Ex in Coral:
		- Arithmetic operators like + and \* if either operand is a float the other is automatically converted into a float => then a floating-point operation is performed
		- For assignments, the right side is to left side type 
#### Type casting
- A programmer sometimes needs to explicitly convert an item's type
	- Ex: A program needs a floating-point result from dividing two integers, then at least one of the ints needs to be converted to a float
- A #typeCast converts a value of one type to another type
- This can be done by multiplying an int by 1.0 
#### Common Errors
- Accidentally perform integer division when floating point division was intended
- Cast the entire result of int division rather than the operands thus not obtaining the entire floating point 
## Modulo operator
- Evaluates remainder of the division of two integer operands
- **Modulo doesn't work with floats**
## Data types
- Should choose the best match for the value being held or represented

| Data type  | Description                                    | Example                                                      |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| #Integer   | is a whole number                              | 1, 999, 0, -25                                               |
| #float     | Floating-point number that is real             | 98.6, 0.0001, -666.67                                        |
| #character | A character is a single letter or symbol       | 'A', 'p' '@'                                                 |
| #string    | Sequence of characters                         | 'Hello', 'The forecast for today is sunny with highs of 75F' |
| #Boolean   | something that has only 2 values true or false | 'Door is open'                                               |
| #array     | ordered list of items of a given data type     | array of ints, or array of floats                            |
## Constants
- a #constant is a named value that holds a value that cannot change.
- used in programs to hold the value of mathematical or physical constants
	- Ex:
		- Pi
		- Speed of light
- constants can also be used to represent any number that doesn't change during the execution of the program
- *Good practice is to minimize the use of literal numbers in code by using constants to improve code readability*
- 

# Arithmetic expressions (general)
## Basics
- An #expression is a combination of items like variables, literals, operators, and parentheses that evaluate to a value
- #literal : specific value in code 
	- ex: 2
- #operator : symbol that performs builtin calculation 
	- ex: + means addition
- - can have the dual function of meaning either subtraction or negation
- there is no = in an expression as that would be an assignment
- ! is not used for factorial
## Evaluation of expressions
- expression #evaluates to a value which replaces the expression
	- Ex: if x is 5 then x + 1 //evaluates to 6 
	- y = x + 1 //assigns y with 6
- expressions are evaluated using the order of standard rules known as #prescedenceRules
- () first
- - unary (the symbol for negation)
- \* /
- + - 
- left to right
	- if more than one operator of equal precedence is evaluated is left to right
- To ensure that the order of operations is correct you can use parentheses to make the order explicit 
## Questions
#review_Questions 
- What is a expression?
- What is a literal?
- What is an operator?
- How can I make sure the order of operations for a given expression is correct?
- What is float? Why is it called a float?
- How can one determine the best type of variable to use?
- What are the problems when dividing by 0
- How can you manipulate the output of a float?
- What is precedence?
- What is evaluation of an expression?
- What is associativity?

# Arithmetic expressions (integer)
- Revisit this section to see, not sure if i could find any notes to put down for this
# Floating point numbers (float)
- floating point number is a real number
	- ex: 98.6 , 0.005, or -66.67
- floating-point refers to the decimal point being able to appear anywhere in the number
- variable declared as type #float stores a floating-point number
- floating-point literal is a number with a fractional part, even if that fraction is 0
	- ex: 10.0, 0.0
## Choosing a variable type (float vs int)
- Programmer should choose a variable's type based on the type of value held
	- Integers typically used for counts like days, months, whole items
	- Floats used for measurements (weight, degrees, distance)
	- Floats also used when dealing with a fraction of a countable item (average)

## Float divide by zero
- Many programming languages create an error when dividing by zero
- Coral doesn't, in coral it is infinity or negative infinity depending on operands
- If both the operand and dividend and divisor are both 0 than the result is NaN
## Manipulating float output
- Some floats have many digits after and repeating digits. 
- Most programming languages output at least 5 digits after the decimal point
- For coral you can reduce the output length by putting something like:
	- `Put myfloat to output with 3 decimal places` 

## Chapter 2.19: Using math functions
## Basics
- Some programs require math beyond the standard operands
	- sqroot
	- Coral has a few built ins known as functions
- a #function is a list of statements executed by invoking the function's name 
- The invoking of the name is known as a function call. 
- Any function input values, or arguments, appear within ( )  separated by commas

# Questions
#review_Questions
- What is the difference between int and float?
- In what cases would you use an int and in what cases would you use a float?
- What is a character?
- What is a string?
- What is a Boolean?
- What are the rules for manipulating a float?
- What happens when you divide by zero?
- What is type conversion? 
- 